---
title: poj3122 Pie  
date: 2017-07-10 13:04:44
tags: 
- 贪心
- 二分

categories: 二分
---
My birthday is coming up and traditionally I'm serving pie. Not just one pie, no, I have a number N of them, of various tastes and of various sizes. F of my friends are coming to my party and each of them gets a piece of pie. This should be one piece of one pie, not several small pieces since that looks messy. This piece can be one whole pie though. 

My friends are very annoying and if one of them gets a bigger piece than the others, they start complaining. Therefore all of them should get equally sized (but not necessarily equally shaped) pieces, even if this leads to some pie getting spoiled (which is better than spoiling the party). Of course, I want a piece of pie for myself too, and that piece should also be of the same size. 

What is the largest possible piece size all of us can get? All the pies are cylindrical in shape and they all have the same height 1, but the radii of the pies can be different.
Input
One line with a positive integer: the number of test cases. Then for each test case:
One line with two integers N and F with 1 ≤ N, F ≤ 10 000: the number of pies and the number of friends.
One line with N integers ri with 1 ≤ ri ≤ 10 000: the radii of the pies.
Output
For each test case, output one line with the largest possible volume V such that me and my friends can all get a pie piece of size V. The answer should be given as a floating point number with an absolute error of at most 10 −3.
Sample Input
3
3 3
4 3 3
1 24
5
10 5
1 4 2 3 4 5 6 5 4 2
Sample Output
25.1327
3.1416
50.2655


题意：有n个饼，f+1个人，把饼平均分给这几个人，每个人只能拿到一块。

那么每个人分到的大小一定在0-sum/(f+1)之间，二分这个区间，跳出这个区间的条件就是（left+1e-3<right）

二分的题还得多做啊！
  ````c++
#include<stdio.h>
#include<math.h>
#include<queue>
#include<string>
#include<string.h>
#include<iostream>
#include<algorithm>
#include<map>
using namespace std;
const int inf=0x3f3f3f3f;
#define pai acos(-1.0)
double f[10005];
int main()
{
    int t;
    scanf("%d",&t);
    while(t--)
    {
        int N,F;
        scanf("%d%d",&N,&F);
        double maxx=0;
        F++;
        for(int i=0; i<N; i++)
        {
            int n;
            scanf("%d",&n);
            f[i]=1.0*n*n*pai;
            maxx+=f[i];
        }
        double right=1.0*maxx/F;
        double left=0;
        double mid;
        while(left+1e-6<right)
        {
            int sum=0;
            mid=1.0*(left+right)/2;
            for(int i=0; i<N; i++)
            {
                sum+=(f[i]/mid);
            }
            if(sum<F)
                right=mid;
            else
                left=mid;
        }
        printf("%.4lf\n",left);
    }
    return 0;
}
    ````