---
title: 2017 Multi-University Training Contest - Team 1 1001	Add More Zero
date: 2017-07-26 11:20:32
tags:
- 数学

categories: 数学
---
# 题目

Add More Zero

Time Limit: 2000/1000 MS (Java/Others)    Memory Limit: 131072/131072 K (Java/Others)
Total Submission(s): 2245    Accepted Submission(s): 1053


Problem Description
There is a youngster known for amateur propositions concerning several mathematical hard problems.

Nowadays, he is preparing a thought-provoking problem on a specific type of supercomputer which has ability to support calculations of integers between 0 and (2m−1) (inclusive).

As a young man born with ten fingers, he loves the powers of 10 so much, which results in his eccentricity that he always ranges integers he would like to use from 1 to 10k (inclusive).

For the sake of processing, all integers he would use possibly in this interesting problem ought to be as computable as this supercomputer could.

Given the positive integer m, your task is to determine maximum possible integer k that is suitable for the specific supercomputer.
 

Input
The input contains multiple test cases. Each test case in one line contains only one positive integer m, satisfying 1≤m≤105.
 

Output
For each test case, output "Case #x: y" in one line (without quotes), where x indicates the case number starting from 1 and y denotes the answer of corresponding case.
 

Sample Input
1
64
 

Sample Output
Case #1: 0
Case #2: 19

# 题意
求2的n次方的位数-1

# 方法

取对数是好方法，用常用对数底为10，则能对
一个正整数进行位数判断
设2^N是k位数，则：10^(k+1)>2^N>10^k
取对数得：
k+1>log(2^N)=Nlog2>k
所以：k=Nlog2整数位+1
所以：k=[Nlog2]+1

 ````c++
#include<stdio.h>
#include<math.h>
int main()
{
    int n;
    int tt=1;
    while(~scanf("%d",&n))
    {
        printf("Case #%d: %d\n",tt++,(int)(n*log10(2)));
    }
    return 0;
}


    ````