---
title: poj3258 River Hopscotch
date: 2017-07-08 07:03:53
tags: 
- 贪心
- 烧脑
- 二分


categories: 二分
---
River Hopscotch
Time Limit: 2000MS		Memory Limit: 65536K
Total Submissions: 13855		Accepted: 5886
Description

Every year the cows hold an event featuring a peculiar version of hopscotch that involves carefully jumping from rock to rock in a river. The excitement takes place on a long, straight river with a rock at the start and another rock at the end, L units away from the start (1 ≤ L ≤ 1,000,000,000). Along the river between the starting and ending rocks, N (0 ≤ N ≤ 50,000) more rocks appear, each at an integral distance Di from the start (0 < Di < L).

To play the game, each cow in turn starts at the starting rock and tries to reach the finish at the ending rock, jumping only from rock to rock. Of course, less agile cows never make it to the final rock, ending up instead in the river.

Farmer John is proud of his cows and watches this event each year. But as time goes by, he tires of watching the timid cows of the other farmers limp across the short distances between rocks placed too closely together. He plans to remove several rocks in order to increase the shortest distance a cow will have to jump to reach the end. He knows he cannot remove the starting and ending rocks, but he calculates that he has enough resources to remove up to M rocks (0 ≤ M ≤ N).

FJ wants to know exactly how much he can increase the shortest distance *before* he starts removing the rocks. Help Farmer John determine the greatest possible shortest distance a cow has to jump after removing the optimal set of M rocks.

Input

Line 1: Three space-separated integers: L, N, and M 
Lines 2..N+1: Each line contains a single integer indicating how far some rock is away from the starting rock. No two rocks share the same position.
Output

Line 1: A single integer that is the maximum of the shortest distance a cow has to jump after removing M rocks
Sample Input

25 5 2
2
14
11
21
17
Sample Output

4
Hint

Before removing any rocks, the shortest jump was a jump of 2 from 0 (the start) to 2. After removing the rocks at 2 and 14, the shortest required jump is a jump of 4 (from 17 to 21 or from 21 to 25).

题意：牛通过河中的几块石头过河过河，现在老农要增加难度，除去n块石头中比较近的m个，然后求出去除石头后距离最小为多少。
---
没怎么做过二分题，不怎么懂怎么用二分做题，看的题解。
移除石头后的最短距离肯定在最大距离和最小距离之间，那么我们就二分这个距离，看二分出的最短距离是否符合移除m个石头。
---
几个难懂的点。
1.
   ````
                if((sum+=a[i]-a[i-1])<=mid)
                    cnt++;
这段代码进入if条件时，满足条件，那么就去除第i块石头
  ````


2.如果cnt>m说明数量太多，应该缩小范围，
  如果cnt<=m，同理
3.输出为什么时minn?
跳出while循环那么满足minn==right+1，其实输出minn和right是一样的。
那么为什么到最后minn=mid+1呢？mid不是最后所求吗？
当然不是了，mid满足的条件是(sum+=a[i]-a[i-1])<=mid，那么肯定有等于mid的，那么去除的数量就不够了，所以要加1，一个解释的很好的博客：[http://blog.csdn.net/libin56842/article/details/38660579](http://blog.csdn.net/libin56842/article/details/38660579)



````c++
#include<stdio.h>
#include<math.h>
#include<queue>
#include<string>
#include<string.h>
#include<iostream>
#include<algorithm>
using namespace std;
const int inf=0x3f3f3f3f;
int a[50005];
int main()
{
    int l,n,m;
    while(~scanf("%d%d%d",&l,&n,&m))
    {
        memset(a,0,sizeof(a));
        for(int i=1; i<=n; i++)
        {
            scanf("%d",&a[i]);
        }
        sort(a+1,a+n+1);
        a[0]=0;
        a[n+1]=l;
        int mid;
        int minn=inf,right=l;
        for(int i=1; i<=n+1; i++)
        {
            minn=min(minn,(a[i]-a[i-1]));
        }
        while(right>=minn)
        {
            int cnt=0,sum=0;
            mid=(minn+right)>>1;
            for(int i=1; i<=n+1; i++)
            {
                if((sum+=a[i]-a[i-1])<=mid)
                    cnt++;
                else
                    sum=0;//连续的几个石头距离和大于mid的话，再把连续距离清0重新枚举
            }
            //printf("%d\n",mid);
            if(cnt>m)
                right=mid-1;
            else
                minn=mid+1;
        }
        printf("%d\n",right+1);
    }
    return 0;
}

 ````
                    