---
title: poj2393 Yogurt factory
date: 2017-07-10 13:21:39
tags: 
- 贪心

categories: 贪心
---
The cows have purchased a yogurt factory that makes world-famous Yucky Yogurt. Over the next N (1 <= N <= 10,000) weeks, the price of milk and labor will fluctuate weekly such that it will cost the company C_i (1 <= C_i <= 5,000) cents to produce one unit of yogurt in week i. Yucky's factory, being well-designed, can produce arbitrarily many units of yogurt each week. 

Yucky Yogurt owns a warehouse that can store unused yogurt at a constant fee of S (1 <= S <= 100) cents per unit of yogurt per week. Fortuitously, yogurt does not spoil. Yucky Yogurt's warehouse is enormous, so it can hold arbitrarily many units of yogurt. 

Yucky wants to find a way to make weekly deliveries of Y_i (0 <= Y_i <= 10,000) units of yogurt to its clientele (Y_i is the delivery quantity in week i). Help Yucky minimize its costs over the entire N-week period. Yogurt produced in week i, as well as any yogurt already in storage, can be used to meet Yucky's demand for that week.
Input
* Line 1: Two space-separated integers, N and S. 

* Lines 2..N+1: Line i+1 contains two space-separated integers: C_i and Y_i.
Output
* Line 1: Line 1 contains a single integer: the minimum total cost to satisfy the yogurt schedule. Note that the total might be too large for a 32-bit integer.
Sample Input
4 5
88 200
89 400
97 300
91 500
Sample Output
126900
Hint
OUTPUT DETAILS: 
In week 1, produce 200 units of yogurt and deliver all of it. In week 2, produce 700 units: deliver 400 units while storing 300 units. In week 3, deliver the 300 units that were stored. In week 4, produce and deliver 500 units. 


题意：给出n周，保存费用s，然后n行生产牛奶每周每升需要得费用C_i，每周需要生产得牛奶。

做法：每次更新相邻的下一周即可。因为若下一周被更新，那么下一周可以用来更新剩下的周，所以当前周只需要负责下一周。（没想到啊！直接覆盖，我，，，又是这种方法）
````c++
#include<stdio.h>
#include<math.h>
#include<queue>
#include<string>
#include<string.h>
#include<iostream>
#include<algorithm>
#include<map>
using namespace std;
const int inf=0x3f3f3f3f;
int cmp(int x,int y)
{
    return x>y;
}
int a[10005],b[10005];
int main()
{
    int n,s;
    while(~scanf("%d%d",&n,&s))
    {
        memset(a,0,sizeof(a));
        memset(b,0,sizeof(b));
        for(int i=0; i<n; i++)
            scanf("%d%d",&a[i],&b[i]);
        long long int sum=0;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++)
        {
            sum+=(a[i]*b[i]);
            if(i!=n-1)
                a[i+1]=min(a[i+1],a[i]+s);
        }
        printf("%lld\n",sum);
    }
    return 0;
}
    ````